# Critique by Design

## Step 1: Find a data visualization

Visualization in the link: https://www.cnbc.com/2021/09/02/shang-chi-doesnt-have-a-release-date-in-china-why-thats-a-big-deal.html

As China is becoming an increasingly large market for movie releases, entertainment studios are investing heavily in the distribution in China. Using the example of Marvel, the article wants to illustrate that the Chinese market is important and contributes a noticeable proportion to the box office performance of a movie. However, I feel the data visualization "Share of Marvel films' box office sales in China" on the page could be improved for better understanding and easier comparison.

## Step 2: Critique the data visualization
I went through the critique process of the selected visualization following the Effectiveness Profile method.

- **Usefulness (8):** The usefulness of the data visualization depends on the audience it is targeting. For this chart which shows the percentage share of Marvel’s box office sales in China, I think it is useful for film studios who rely on such data to make decisions on film distribution in China. The data can help answer questions like: Are Marvel films popular in China? How much revenue can a film release in China generate using the example of Marvel? Is the share of the Chinese market increasing or decreasing over the years?
- **Completeness (9):** I think the visualization has all the relevant information to make it understandable. With the presence of basic information including movie titles, years, global sales, and shares from China, there is no missing or confusing information. It is also not overwhelmed with information that can potentially distract readers.
- **Perceptibility (4):** The perceptibility of this visualization can be improved. Although it is indicated under the title that films are shown in order of release year, readers might still be confused by the numbers in the parenthesis next to the titles. In addition, using numbers only to reflect the global sales and separating them from the share from China makes it more different for readers to truly understand the contribution of Chinese box office sales. For instance, Avengers: Age of Ultron is actually generating more sales in China compared to Ant-Man (17% of $1.4 billion is larger than 20% of $519 million), but readers might mistakenly think the opposite because only the part of share percentage is visualized.
- **Truthfulness (6):** Overall the visualization is accurate. However, since almost all the percentages are under 20%, it is hard to differentiate. Also, the absence of visualizing global sales and shares from China together might lead readers to make incorrect conclusions.
- **Intuitiveness (7):** The bar chart is familiar and intuitive for general readers. It is not difficult to understand what the chart is talking about. There is also an instruction on the order of the movies.
- **Aesthetics (7):** The visualization is clean and comfortable to look at. I think the overall layout is clear and easy for readers to navigate. The use of blue is also appropriate as it does not distract the readers and makes the texts easy to read.
- **Engagement (5):** I think the visualization can do a better job in terms of engagement. There is nothing too distracting, but it does not provide any direct insights or inspiration for the readers.

**Overall Observation**
I think this data visualization presents a clear structure without unnecessary information. The title and explanation of order effectively guide readers to interpret the data. The use of bar chart makes it easy to understand and compare. However, the separation of global sales and shares from China into two columns might mislead the readers to make wrongful conclusions. A reader may think Ant-Man and the Wasp is one of the most popular Marvel movies in China as it has a leading share of 19%. But this conclusion is not correct as its actual sales number is in the low range. Therefore, I would probably visualize the global sales as well and incorporate shares from China to make a segmented bar chart for easier and more accurate comparison. I would also put the years into their own column to stress the time information in the chart.
